[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're going to go back to
our little side by side adventure here and
do some more comparison.
We're gonna talk about a simple really,
little feature added in ES6,
but it's one of those delightful features.
It's not necessarily
hugely groundbreaking or
gonna radically change the way you
approach your code or even express things.
But it's more delightful in this sense and
that does create
less of the visual clutter that
our readers need to deal with.
So let's talk about a scenario like this,
let's say that I have name= "Kyle"; and
let's say orderNumber =
"123"; and total =,
>> Kyle Simpson: 319.72, okay,
let's make it 319.7.
All right, so if I were going to make
a string to print out some message.
Say I was printing out a receipt,
if you will, it's going to
print out some message that included
these values along with some text.
That message might, for example,
look like this message.
Hello name, your order,
and, at this point,
I'm running out of line room.
So I want to break onto the next line, so
I'm gonna do, you might have seen before,
the trick of breaking onto multiple
lines by putting a backslash
at the end of the line.
Officially, that's called
a line continuation.
So I'm gonna break onto the next line and
say your order and
I'm going to say + orderNumber,
>> Kyle Simpson: was,
and now I'm at the end of this line so
instead of doing a line continuation
I'm just gonna do a plus.
Go to the next one and let's go ahead and
put the dollar sign symbol in here for
this matter.
So your total, so I made this string,
put some values in,
making this stuff on the fly.
Okay, so
let's evaluate what's happening here.
What's happening is that I am,
what is called interpolating,
these values into the bigger string.
That word interpolating is
not something I made up.
That's a thing that other
people have made up,
it's an actual feature
in certain languages.
And we're doing so manually with strings
and string concatenation because
up to this point, JavaScript hasn't
supported any way to do interpolation.
So along comes ES6 and
they decide to invent this feature
that's going to allow
us to do interpolation.
But instead of calling it interpolation,
they give it this other name which
is really terrible and confusing.
They call them template strings or
template literals.
Now the word template has a fairly
strong meaning to most people.
And I'm willing to bet that
you listening to this.
You're probably, when I say the word
template, what comes to your mind
is the idea that I have
some sort of basic set of
value that I can recreate every time and
give it new values to be inputted into it.
So I have this thing that
I can remake over and
over again with new data, every time.
That's what most people think of
when they think of a template.
So when I show you this feature and
I tell you that they called it
template strings or
template literals you're going to think,
I'm creating this template that I can
rerun during this and every time.
And that's not what they
mean by the word template.
Okay, so before and after here,
let's start out with the same vars.
But now to create my message.
What I'm gonna be able to do
is interpolate these variable
expressions directly into the string.
In PHP, you might be familiar,
if I'm recalling correctly, it's
in double quotes if you do a dollar sign
variable name instead of a double quote,
it automatically replaces that
with the value of that variable.
That's automatic interpolation, so
we're gonna do something of the sort here.
But we can't just do that inside
of double quote strings or
even single quote strings in JavaScript
because that would break existing code.
So we had to come up with a new syntax for
delimiting these special kind of,
what are called template strings.
And that new syntax is to use
a back tick instead of a single
quote or a double quote.
And now we don't need to do
any of that breaking out of
the string to add it thing.
So I'm gonna get rid of the adding.
And what's interesting now is I don't
need to escape the end of a line
because these are automatically
capable of bridging across lines.
And I don't need this stuff.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I don't need that,
and then I simply end it
with another back tick.
So there's my new message, now,
if that was the way that it worked,
that could also create some havoc
because how would it know if you
really wanted the variable name replaced
or you wanted to say the word name.
So we need to delimit these in some way.
And the way JavaScript chose to delimit
them is to wrap dollar sign curly brace
around the expression that we want
to be interpreted and interpolated.
So we would say $ and
$ notice those two dollar
signs there the first dollar sign
is left entirely alone.
It's only going to pay attention
to a dollar sign curly brace.
So if you wanted to do a dollar sign curly
brace that wasn't part of the delimiter,
you just have to backslash
the dollar sign.
So now we have this string which I
can break across multiple lines and
I can automatically
interpolate those expressions
directly into my string literal.
Now, the difference here
is going to be subtle, but
while we're talking about it,
we should go ahead and talk about it.
Have any of you ever heard before
the notion of the phrase of
a multi-line string?
Okay this phrase is often used in
programming, but it's used imprecisely.
We're actually pretty famous
about this as developers.
We use these different words and
people mean slightly
different things by the term.
And it propagates so much that
actually it turns out that the word
hardly means anything because it means so
many different things to different people.
So I just want to provide
some clarity on this.
There is such a thing as a string that
is continued on to multiple lines.
And there is such a thing
as a multi-line string.
And I'm going to assert that those
two things are distinct concepts.
So a string that continues across multiple
lines would be like what we see here,
which is that I do a string continuation
or a line continuation at the end.
And I come out over here, and if I were
to run this code in the browser and
print it out, let's look at what happens.
If I run this over here in my console,
and print out message.
I get one string all in one line,
everybody with me?
But, people will call
this a multi-line string.
Well, there's not actually multiple
lines in the string value.
So it's not really a multi-line,
string it's a string that
continued to cross multiple lines.
The nuance that I'm trying to get
here will make more sense in just
a moment when I talk to you about the
template strings, the template literals.
But it's important to know that this one
does not include the new line because we
are escaping the new
line that we put there.
So it's leaving it out of
the string value, you with me.
Now let's talk about template literals.
If I were to take this code and
come over here to my console and run it.
And then ask for what's in msg.
Did you notice anything different?
Now I actually have a new
line in that location,
which is why it prints
across two separate lines.
So what I would argue is that a template
literal or a template string is in fact,
if you put it there, a multi-line string,
a string that preserves those new lines.
Whereas the old school JavaScript strings
with line continuations are just simply
strings that span multiple lines.
>> Kyle Simpson: We get a difference here,
if you didn't want that string there,
I mean, if you didn't want that new line,
you'd have to escape it.
In which case it's not gonna be present.
But by themselves,
without any doing of that escaping,
you're gonna get a real multi-line
string with a template literal, whereas,
with regular strings you don't, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Do you know [COUGH] for
the spec, does that insert a slash n or
is it OS dependent?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's actually the back
slash n.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
always?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, the standardized
one, all right so just a little nuance for
you to pay attention to.
If you're going to break your strings
across multiple lines and not escape them
you're gonna get actual multi-line strings
which may or may not be what you want.
You should be careful about that, okay?
All right, so now let's talk
about why this is bad to call
this a template literal or a template
string, why is this a bad name for it?
Well, it implies that msg is a template,
that can sort of be re-rendered
with different data.
But msg here is an actual
legitimate real string value.
The back tics here are a way
to do a string literal
that is evaluated immediately.
And then it's done and
it's never reevaluated ever again.
It's kind of like an iffy, it just
runs right away and then it's done.
So the way most people think
about templates with reuse
as part of the definition.
These are not reusable in that sense.
You could wrap them in a function and
call a function.
And every time get back a new
string from a new template literal.
But now the function becomes the template
not the string value, you with me?
So I and several others have.
Regularly called out,
this is a bad name for these.
Template literals,
any usage of the word template here is
going to be confusing and misleading.
We brought these objections up a while
back, but the spec was too far along and
nobody seemed to care about
actually changing anything.
So it landed in the strut spec as
template literals and template strings or
something like that.
So it's kind of annoying, but
I prefer to call these what they really
are, just interpolated string literals.
Call me crazy,
I like to call an apple an apple, right?
That's what it is,
it's an interpolated string literal.
Interpolated string literal
is a big ole mouthful.
So one day about a year and a half
ago I was tweeting with Brendan Eich,
as I do, because he and
I are best buddies.
He's a cool guy, anyway I was tweeting
with Brendan Eich about this and
I was kind of, because I've been kind of
tweet complaining about template literals
and what a bad name that was.
And surprisingly he kind
of agreed with me that
yeah there can be some confusion
around that word template.
So we kind of decided in
that Twitter conversation,
that if you wanna be a cool kid and
you wanna use the right name but you want
like a cool like hip sounding name for it.
You don't wanna say interpolated
string literal you can just call them
interpoliterals.
So I kinda like that, interpoliterals,
it's kind of a cool word.
Anyway maybe you don't think that's funny,
maybe you haven't had enough coffee
this afternoon, I don't know.
Interpoliterals, interpolated string
literals, whatever you want to call them.
Okay, so these are nice like I said just
in sort of a basic feature, it's kind
of delightful to have a little bit easier
syntax for dealing with our strings.
Your error messages, your whatever.
I'm not at all suggesting as some do,
that you ought to do all your HTML
structuring inside of your JavaScript.
I am actually very anti that.
There are a lot of times that we do string
constructions of error messages and
other things like that.
Any time you're doing any kind of
string construction a template literal.
An interpoliteral is going
to be more helpful for you,
questions about those?
A question in the chat was,
can this be anything?
Yeah, and actually I meant to say this,
right now I'm using a variable name,
it's any valid JavaScript expression.
So you could put an entire
JavaScript program inside of
the expression if that's what you wanted.
As a matter of fact,
as crazy as this sounds,
I have had a couple of occasions
where I did an interpolated
literal inside of the expression inside
of another interpolated literal.
So you can go, it's turtles all the way
down you go down as far as you need to go.
Okay but most of the time,
probably 99% of the time, you're gonna see
them just as regular JavaScript variables.